---
layout: post
title: p5.js Project Evaluation
---

Waassup Blog back here with another post, I'm pretty sure I am going into my third week of being in Santa Cruz and I am really enjoying my time. The colors are much more vibrant than back in Norfolk and I never realized how much I would enjoy going on hikes and taking in the the views. I am so glad to have been able to be apart of this cohort and I am excited for what is to come for us towards the end.

Today I am posting about a bigger project called [p5.js](https://p5js.org/) that me and my partner Kemon researched before the end of the past week. P5.js is an open source JavaScript library desgined for creative coding, and focuses on making programming accesible for artists, designers, beginners, and basically anyone interested in creating interactive content. The p5.js project has a significant number of contributors, with 205 contributors listed on its GitHub repository. The project does seem to be pretty active with there currently being 265 open issues and 46 pull requests. With 5 of the pull request being from the past seven days only 2 have been merged and the other 3 are still open. If interested in contributing to p5.js, the best starting point is the contributor documentation located in the GitHub repository. This documentation outlines the contribution process, including how to set up the development environment, the steps for making a pull request, and guidelines for contributing. TO understand project's values and priorities you are encouraged to read the Community Statement and Access Statement. P5.js has a good amount of technical documentation to help users and contributors for example like Installation Documentation, API Refrence, [Contributor Documentation](https://github.com/processing/p5.js/blob/main/contributor_docs/contributor_guidelines.md), and more.

Tracking bugs and Feature requests are tracked using the "Issues" tab on GitHub, the issues are managed with discussion on either their forums or discord from maintainers and contributors. Downloading and installing p5.js should take a good amount of time ranging from 30-45 minutes. The developers and contribiutors of p5.js communicate through various channels and tools, primarily centered around GitHub using its Issues and Pull Requests. P5.js also have a [Discussion Forum](https://discourse.processing.org/c/p5js/10) to bring up certain issues/questions regarding the project and contributing, the project may have a mailing list as well but after researching their website I found their [Discord](https://discord.gg/SHQ8dH25r9). One of the most intriguing parts of p5.js is its focus on diversity and accessibility. The project intends to make coding more accessible to artists and beginners while also prioritizing improving access to underrepresented groups in technology. This dedication is represented in their community and access statements, which direct the project's development and community engagement.

P5.js focuses on creative coding and making programming accessible to almost everyone. It has a large user base in the education and arts communities, with many contributions and active maintenance. While OpenSSF works to improve the security of open source software. It operates on a smaller scale and has a more particular aim, primarily addressing developers and organizations concerned with software security. Personally I would rather choose a project like OpenSSF it is geared more towards what I want to do with my career which is cyber security but I feel like it is also small enough for me to have my voice heard, and get my pull requested looked at and merged. Though p5.js has some intruigung qualities like the communication and the creativity I will probably get a reaction from the smaller group doing it my first time.
​
