---
layout: post
title: HTOS Highlights
---

Heyy blog back again, its been a while since I posted but much has happened since my last post. Everyone has returned safely back to their homes and we have already made a decent size of contributions that have prs waiting to be accepted/merged.

The book HTOS was definetly new for me there were a lot of topics and concepts that were confusing but Emily helped provide a better understanding even if she may not know what it means all the way. Though the book had topics I didn't understand I still really enjoyed learning about open source and all of the different aspects that ultimately make it up. One of the concepts that I was pretty new to was called the "Imposter Syndrome", I've never heard of this phrase before but used my context clues as best as I can to understand it. I find this concept interesting because I can somewhat relate to it, like at times when I feel I didnt accomplish much in a project and start to be hard on myself when in reality the work that I did was really great. I believe if you want to refrain from falling into this condition it is going to require more collaboration between other people to hear different feedback on your work so you could get a bettwer wholistic view of how your work actually looks.

On the previous call when were speaking to Richard and he mentioned open source programming can be like "performance art" he basically meant that the programming is not going to be easy and it will most likely require you to be able to adapt and change something on the spot like during a performance if neccessary. Open Source Programming allows for creativity and innovation as well showcasing your talent which are all principles that can be applied to the performance art as well. I do agree because I myself am apart of the marching band and I know what its like to perform and the challenges/benefits that can come with it. I am able to notice the similarities between both open source and performance art.

The quote that Richard says does somewhat align with my own perceptions of working in the tech industry. "The longer I’ve been employed as a professional coder, the more I realize that I’m paid […] for my ability to figure out things that I do not know quickly.” When getting into the tech industry your employers are going to be hiring you because of the knowledge that you previously gained, but your ability to problem solve is also extremely crucial as well because with being in tech there will alwasy be some problem and your ability to work through the problem and try and solve it also what employers want to see in their employees. My participation in the Catalyst program I feel like allowed me to become more of a Computer Scientist because we were constantly running into issues whether it be setting up dev environment, or discussing how to tackle and issue in the code, etc. Whatever issue arrived we didn't freak out instead we approached the issue from all aspects to be able to better understand it, and I feel like that step is important when wanting to work in open source or in the tech industry at all.
