---
layout: post
title: OSSF Project Evaluation
---

Hello Blog today's post is about evaluating projects, yesterday in lab we began talking about evaluation of a project and building context on a project. The first project we worked on was called OpenSSF(Source Security Foundation), basically this project helps open source maintainers improve their security's best practices by giving a numbered assesment from 0-10 at important checks associated with software security. Currently this project has 146 contributors and the project seems to be really active with 15 pull requests being active withtin the past week. If I was interested in contributing to this project the first couple of hings I would do is join their slack which is presented in their Readme file, read their "CONTRIBUTING.md" this lists OpenSSF's guidelines of contributing as well as a "Getting Started" guide/tab. Underneath the docs folder in the OpenSSF repo, it is there that you can find amswers on what are the certain requirements needed to open a new repository, there is also a FAQ file in the docs so that will also help answer a lot of questions, the docs folder also has a file there stating what the "checks" you should be looking for as a a beginner, the Readme file is also a great resource that describes the project. The bugs/features of this projected are tracked using the labels provided in the "Issues" section of the repo. Currently the amount of issues that are open compared to the ones that are closed is half but we can see active comments under a lot of different issue posts and contributors are working together to get issues under control. Since the project is as big compared to other Open Source Projects I don't think it would take that long to download and install this project. The most interesting thing I have learned from this exercie is the "insights" tab I have never really looked into that tab but it provides a plethora of information and has little subsections to see even more about the project's analytics.
